Second Journal Entry - Rebelle 3
* Warren Rose II - 4/12/20

As part of my work in other classes I wanted to illustrate some flowing lava.  Not having found exactly what I wanted in Photoshop I opened up a new art program called Rebelle 3.  Rebelle has a painterly bent and the first thing I noticed was that it was asking me to choose the type of stock paper I wanted.  The brown and crinkled paper I chose had torn and rough edges.  It was very easy for me to copy my project image from Photoshop and paste it into the Rebelle 3 environment - the layers and methods of shading the layers (Color Burn, Overlay, etc) were identical in name and accessibilty (although apparently slightly different in function) to the layer system in Photoshop. I found this appealing as the Layer and shading metaphor is **learnable** (easy to pick up and operate) and having **affordance** (familiarity and accessability) between programs is a good thing.  Painting and spraypainting and marking up the art was **satisfying** (viscerally good), but took some effort to learn as the simulated paint had brush wetness so the 'ink' did not always stay where expected, instead continuing to flow for a few seconds after I left go of the mouse.  I have to say that the program was not very error tolerant as the crop function moved the torn edges of the 'paper' closer to the region I had selected, effectively erasing the border, which I did not realize until after I had exported it back to Photoshop.  Other than that, it was fun and I will definitely pick it up again for tricky art pieces.
